Builds in the continuous integration can't start on their own,
they need something to trigger them to start running pipelines.
Here are a few common ways to trigger a CI pipeline.
The most common triggers are from Git commits on a branch or a pull request,
which really makes continuous integration continuous.
Some teams like to run a build every night,
which would be more of a schedule trigger,
and there are a few other ways to manually trigger a build that might be interesting.
We'll be using Git based triggers throughout this course.
By now you've connected at least one CI pipeline to a Git repository.
Did you ever wonder what happened in the background?
It might be helpful for you to understand what's happening between
these two completely separate systems to make that automatic connection.
To show you what happens in the background when CircleCI makes
a connection to a repository in GitHub,
I'm going to start in GitHub.
So I've got a repository that I'm about to create,
I'm going to call it circle-ci-connection just for a temporary repository.
I'll click "Create Repository",
and now I'm going to just add a README file because we actually need
some file or branch in
our repository or our CircleCI won't be able to do anything with it.
So now we've got our repository,
we've got a file, we've got a branch,
so now let's go over to Settings,
I'm going to show you something that is pretty cool.
Let's take a look at webhooks in the settings.
Webhooks are a way for GitHub or services like
GitHub to notify the rest of the world when certain events happen.
You can imagine some of the events that are happening in GitHub,
like pushes, commits, pull requests,
issues, things like that.
So let's add a webhook right now.
The payload URL is going to be a URL that is of a backend server,
that is able to receive some post HTTP request.
So we're going to send this to Google,
and you can change the content type to application JSON,
you can type in a secret if you want to or you can leave it blank,
and then you can choose what type of event will trigger this webhook.
So you could just set up the push event or you could have it send you everything,
or you can select certain events.
So here you can actually see what the events are;
check runs, check suites, deployments, wiki, forks,
issues, project columns, project cards,
there's a lot in here, pushes, statuses.
We don't really need most of these events,
so a lot of times you can just say the push event.
There may be some things that you really do need the specific event,
in which you can just select it or you can just have them send you everything.
When you're finished, you can just add the webhook.
Now Google is going to receive a push every time my repository gets a commit.
Since we don't really want that to happen,
we're just going to delete this.
So as you can see here, we don't have any webhooks.
Let's go over to CircleCI and make a connection.
You remember, I named my repository circle-ci-connection,
so I'm over here in CircleCI and it
has found my project and so I can just click "Set Up Project".
I'm going to set things up manually so I can just say,
Add Manually and Start Building,
and in the background what's happening is CircleCI is going over to
GitHub using the credentials that I've provided
already and is adding something, let's see what it added.
If I refresh my GitHub page,
now I'll be able to see that there is a new webhook
that's been created by CircleCI on my behalf.
If I edit it, I can see that this is the payload that is being selected,
and here's the content type,
here's a secret which is masked away from us from viewing,
and we can see the different types of events that they are keying off of.
If I ever want to sever the connection between my repository and CircleCI,
really all I've got to do is delete the webhook from GitHub and mission accomplished.
But in most cases,
we're going to leave it where it is and we can now enjoy automated
builds between GitHub pushes and CircleCI.